URL.parse() static method docs (#33207)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/url/url/index.md

  - : A string representing the base URL to use in cases where `url` is a relative URL.
    If not specified, it defaults to `undefined`.

    When specify a `base` URL, the resolved URL is not simply a concatenation of `url` and `base`.
    Parent-relative and current-directory-relative URLS are relative to the current directory of the `base` URL, which includes path segments up until the last forward-slash, but not any after.
    Root-relative URLs are relative to the base origin.
    For more information see [Resolving relative URLs](/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL_API/Resolving_relative_urls).

> **Note:** The `url` and `base` arguments will each be stringified from whatever value you pass, such as an {{domxref("HTMLAnchorElement")}} or {{domxref("HTMLAreaElement")}} element, just like with other Web APIs that accept a string.
> In particular, you can use an existing {{domxref("URL")}} object for either argument, and it will be stringified from the object's {{domxref("URL.href", "href")}} property.

### Exceptions

- {{jsxref("TypeError")}}
  - : `url` (in the case of absolute URLs) or `base` + `url` (in the case of relative URLs) is not a valid URL.

## Examples

> 

Author: @wbamberg FYI, there are a bunch of examples below that demonstrate resolving URLs. I propose we delete those and link to the new topic?

https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/33207/files#r1582583678

Author: Deleted.

- `url`
  - : A string or any other object with a {{Glossary("stringifier")}} — including, for example, an {{htmlelement("a")}} or {{htmlelement("area")}} element — that represents an absolute or relative URL.
    If `url` is a relative URL, `base` is required, and will be used as the base URL.

>     If `url` is an absolute URL, a given `base` will be ignored.

Reviewer: Again "ignored" is misleading.

Author: ```suggestion
    If `url` is an absolute URL, a given `base` will not be used to create the resulting URL.
```

- `base` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string representing the base URL to use in cases where `url` is a relative URL.
    If not specified, it defaults to `undefined`.

> **Note:** The `url` and `base` arguments will each be stringified from whatever value you pass, just like with other Web APIs that accept a string.
> In particular, you can use an existing {{domxref("URL")}} object for either argument, and it will stringify to the object's {{domxref("URL.href", "href")}} property.

The resulting URL is not simply a concatenation of `url` and `base`.
The path sections of both arguments are merged according to [RFC 3986 - Relative Resolution](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986.html#section-5.2).
Therefore a trailing slash in `base` or a leading slash in `url` affect how the resulting path is constructed.

> If you need a strict concatenation of the two arguments the `url` must not have a leading slash and the `base` must have a trailing slash.

Reviewer: So one reason I didn't like that PR was that it seemed like the reader/PR author just wanted URL to concatenate, but if you just want concatenation, why not just use concatenation? `${base}${url}`. I didn't really have the energy to argue about it though. But it does suggest to me that we should have much better documentation for resolving relative URLs, then we could just link to that from places like this.

Author: I agree. I'm just trying to keep the work for this part constrained. Let me think on it.

// => 'https://foo.com/' (see relative URLs)
```

> ### Merging of url and base paths

Author: FYI, the merging of base paths is covered in the resolving relative URLs topic
